+++
date = "2017-06-13T12:39:34+02:00"
title = "Involvement"
toc = true
weight = 25

+++
### Admin menu

![Involvement Admin Menu](/images/moore/involvement_menu.png)

Under the menu tab involvement there is a sub menu containing the following
tabs:ß

-  Teams – Handles creation of groups and committees, here you can add new teams
and edit existing ones.

- Roles – Handles creation and editing of roles in groups and committees. Here
you enter role descriptions, names and contact information.

- Positions – Opening roles for application and managing election. **You never
delete old positions since this is where statistics of union involvement is
stored. You always create a new position when its time to appoint new persons
to a role.**

- Applications – Manual managing of applications. **This tab is only used in
special occasions, be careful. Only application administrators can see this tab.**

The application system is separated into the four above parts, teams, roles,
positions, applications. Understanding these parts is important when using the
system. It’s based on how the union handles involvement. The following headlines
will contain a detailed description on how to create and edit teams, roles,
positions and how to manage election.

### Adding, editing, inspecting teams

![Team Window](/images/moore/headline_teams.png)

When in the team window you will see something similar to the picture above. To
add a team you click the button “ADD TEAM”. To inspect who currently is
appointed to a team you hold the cursor over the team and click “INSPECT”. To
edit the team information hold the cursor over the team and click “EDIT”.

![Add/Edit Team](/images/moore/add_team.png)

If you click add team you will enter the new team window. When editing you see
the same window.

To add a new team fill out all information. The drop down list called group
handles the administrative rights for the team. Chose the group named
correspondingly to the team name. If the group does not exist you must create
one under settings (See settings instructions). The contact information should
be the person or team that manages the election of team officials.

### Adding and editing roles

![Roles Window](/images/moore/headline_roles.png)

When in the roles window you will see something similar to the picture above. In
this window you can add and edit roles. To the right in the window you can see a
filter function, here you can filter the roles connected to a specific team
listed in the column. In the bottom of the filter column you can chose to show
old archived roles if you want to reinstate or read about old roles. Never
delete a role, archive it instead, unless you made a mistake when creating a new
role.

To edit a role hold the cursor over the role and click “EDIT”. To add a new role
click “ADD ROLE” in the upper right corner.

![Add/Edit Role](/images/moore/add_role.png)

When adding roles you will enter the new role window showed in the above
picture. (Editing and adding is a similar process) To add a new role fill out
all information in the new role window. Always chose the team that the role
belongs too. If the new role is an official check the box “Official”. If you
want to archive an old role check the box “Archived”.

### Adding and editing positions

Managing election follows in the next section of this document

![Position Window](/images/moore/headline_positions.png)

When in the positions window you will see something similar to the picture
above. In this window you handle election (Nest section) and opening up roles
for application. When positions are available an INSPECT button will appear,
there you can see a preview of submitted applications. To add a position click
at the “ADD POSITION” button. To edit a position hold the cursor over the
position and click “EDIT”.

![Add/Edit Position](/images/moore/add_position.png)

When in the add positions window you will see something similar to the picture
above. (Editing and adding is a similar process) In the drop down list “Role”
chose the role you want to make available for application. In the box “Number of
appointments” chose how many that can have the same role at the same time. In
the calendars “Date of appointment” and “End date of appointment” you chose the
term of office.

If you want an approving committee you can chose a team in the “Approval
committee” drop down list. Usually this only is necessary for applications to
the board and management team. If you don’t need an approving committee don’t
chose any team. The two calendars “Start of recruitment” and “Recruitment
deadline” defines the time period in witch the position is open for application.
**If no application has come in during the original application time you must
edit the position and extend the deadline date. This can be done either by
editing or by the automatic email sent you reminding you to prolong the
application period.** Extra comments shows a small message to the applicant. Use
the extra comment for year specific information.

_When adding a position you will open up a role for application, each position
is unique even if it refers to the same role. The persons appointed to a
specific position will always be appointed to the position even after their
term of office has ended, but their administrative rights will end at the same
time as their term of office. When a person looks at their application window
they will see the year they were appointed to the position. **Never delete or
edit an old position, old positions work as statistics for involvement in the
union! Only edit if there is something wrong with it or if you want to prolong
the application period, don’t change the term of office to make it available
for application again if someone already is appointed!**_

### Approving and appointing persons to a position

When the recruitment deadline has passed it is time to appoint a person to a
position, this can be done either with or without an approval committee
depending on if the position had an approval committee or not. Do not try to
appoint someone before the application deadline has ended.

![Position Window](/images/moore/headline_positions.png)

If you are the approval committee you hold the cursor over the position you want
to approve and click “APPROVE”. If you are an official who wants to appoint
someone you hold the cursor over the position and click “APPOINT”. If the
position has an approval committee you can not appoint until the committee has
approved the positions applicants.

![Approval Window](/images/moore/approve.png)

When you enter the approval window you will see something similar to the picture
above. Here you can see all the applicants, their resume and some additional
information. In the drop down list “Status” you can chose either “Approved” or
“Disapproved” for each candidate. More than one person can be approved. The
warning message that can be seen in the above picture appears if you try to
approve someone during the application period.

![Appointment Window](/images/moore/appoint.png)

When in the appointment window you will see something similar to the above
picture. In this window you can see all approved applicants (or all applicants
if no approval committee). Here you can see the applicants resume and some
additional information. To appoint someone you mark the check box Appoint. You
can appoint the number of persons that has been stated for the position. The
text box overturn should only be used in special occasions. Use overturn when
someone has not been able to apply but should still be appointed to the
position. You overturn by entering the persons person number. Only registered
users can be appointed with overturn. The warning text visible in the above
picture appears if you try to appoint someone when the position is still
available for application.
