+++
date = "2017-05-05T12:39:34+02:00"
title = "Overview"
toc = true
weight = 5

+++

Project Moore is an web application that was build using
[Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/) and [Wagtail](https://wagtail.io/).
Django is a Python web framework. It provides the basic structure for the
application and handles all interactions between receiving a user request and
serving the content. Wagtail is a CMS system built on top of Django. It provides
a lot of functionality for Moore out-of-the-box and is very extendible. The
administration part of the website is part of the Wagtail CMS.

### Background

Uppsala union of engineering and science students has since 2008 used
register.utn.se (the Registry) to manage applications and membership in the
union. The Registry was never intended to be used for the long period of time
that its been in use for. The lack of maintenance has made the system unstable
and the need for a new and better system is apparent.

During 2017 the union board decided to start a new project to build a new
application system; apply.utn.se (Apply). This document will be an instruction
manual for the new sytem for both users admin’s and developers. Developers will
need to go deeper in the system documentation on the UTN GitHub account.

### Hosting of the system

The system is an open source system that can be accessed via GitHub on the
following link: https://github.com/UTNkar. Apply is part of the project named
moore. GitHub is a host for the version management system Git. The UTN
organisation on GitHub contains all the unions diferent IT projects and each
project (ex. Moore) is contained in a repository. The idea behind using GitHub
is that all students involved in the union can contribute to the system and
continue to develop the projects. The union’s system administrator is
responsible for all updates of the system and is the contact point for students
that want contribute to the system. On GitHub you can find further and more
detailed documentation on the system.
