## Google Apps Account Policy

Within UTN all members that acquire a position as an official for UTN are
allowed to have an Google Apps account. A Google Apps account allows the user to
have an "@utn.se" e-mail address and use 15 GB of memory for Google's cloud
services. However because of the limited number of accounts available, for the
sake of clarity in administration, and to keep the data available among the UTN
officials, the following policy is used to govern the Google Apps accounts.

The accounts for UTN are split in two categories: accounts that bound to a
specific position(e.g., *admin@utn.se*), and accounts that are bound to a
specific person (e.g., *jip.dekker@utn.se*). For each of these accounts a
different policy is in place.

### Position Bound Accounts

Position bound accounts are never deleted, whenever a new person enters the
position, the account is transferred to this person. It is up to the former
holder of the position to remove files, e-mails and other data that is no longer
relevant or of a personal nature.

Should the former holder of a position still require access to the Google Apps
account, a mutually agreeable temporary arrangement should be formed between
those involved.

### Personal Accounts

Like position bound accounts, the availability of the personal accounts is to
the extend of the position(s) that hold within UTN. However, due to fact that
there is no need to use that specific account the transferring process is a bit
different compared to position bound accounts. Once a new person takes over the
position, the following steps are followed:

- A new account is created for the new UTN official.
- The former position holder will receive 2 weeks to perform cleanup tasks (more
or less time could be agreed upon with the information officer)
- The data of the personal account is transferred to the new account, and the old account is deleted.
- An alias is added to the new account so no e-mail send to the old account will be lost.
